1. Who knows you the best? 
A: A person does not possess one single personality in himself the personality and actions changes with the situations to adapt with those situations and moments at that time. therefore, to answer this question i would better put the name of myself and indeed Almighty. I am the predictor of myself. The most ins and out of my personality are only known my myself and no other person. 


2. Who is your role model and why? 
A. My role model is elon musk and one day I want to change this world for better living just like elon musk is doing with his companies like Tesla which is electric vehicle manufacturer and thus help in reducing polution and his company spacex is aiming to colonize mars. one day I want my personality to allign with him an do all sort of cool things he is doing.


3. What would your friends say about you? 
A. My friends considers me as an entertainer in the group that makes everyone laugh until ones belly shake. Moreover, they describes me as the person who takes care of needs of everybody in the group with respect to choices and is everyone participating. Also, the one who takes initiative to make plans and execute them that including casual meeting plans or organising events.


4. What is the thing you’d never say to another person? 
A. I would never be impressed to share any confidential information or secrets that anyone discussed with me out of the fiduciary relationship in formal or informal way. Even when the relationship ends. 


5. What is your greatest achievement? 
A. Academically, i maintain a pretty good profile wherein i have achieved the qualities like hard-work coupled with smart work, meeting deadlines, communication skills. maintaining successful inter-personal relationships and knowledge about many subjects. Other than above, i also consider my health physically, mentally and spiritually as one of my non-certified achievements.     


6. What is your greatest failure? 
A. I failed to clear my backlogs in 1st year which impacted my studies and also my GPA.
7. What did you learn from your greatest failure? 
A. my greatest failure thaught me no matter how skilled you are but taking any thing lightly will cause you to fail and thus now I focus and work hard for my every goal and deadline.I give my best to my studies, my tasks, My aim in life and hope to accomplish everything in my life smartly along with hard work.


8. What would you like to change about yourself? 
A. Sometimes there are moments which requires extra boldness and stringent behaviors towards tough times and i believe to deal with them i sometimes tackle them calmly when they actually requires toughness. Therefore, even though most situations are solved with patience and calm i but for some i have started practicing bold approach. 

 
9. If something in your house breaks, what is the first thing you do? 
A. I would first rather choose not to panic at that moment and calm myself. Then would understand how can it be fixed first and make alternate measures and choose the best amongst that. and then i would gather things which are needed and then i would fix. 



10. What is the greatest obstacle you’re facing right now? 
A. Due to the outbreak of the pandemic that has caused distress in entire world i am facing issues relating to find the appropriate working experience that will give me same experience as the field work and enhance my knowledge on this subject.  


11. How do you like to “waste” your time? 
A. I would rather consider the word "waste" as negative because am not a believer of wasting any moment, i instead would like to rephrase is where do i invest my free time. Mostly, i try to watch movies or series online, sometimes i read novels, gym is my favorite hobby  and sometimes to relax and calm myself i sleep.  



12. What made you want to apply for this role? 
A. My interest, passion and enthusiasm towards Ai made me apply for the research role In artificial intelligence. I want to make technologies far greater than they are today and reserch at AlphAi is the first task towrds it.I understand AI in and out and have been praticing it for more than 2 years and my skillset is perfect for this role.


13. How open are you to the idea of doing things outside your job description? 
A. To be honest, i am an inquisitive person. in love to learn and explore things that are out of my comfort zone. Even when i am free i learn about new things and read new things not only to my interest or fields. To stay in the same balloon and not to bust is i think is narrow and i follow even for my life a braid approach. 


14. Describe a time when you recognized that you were unable to meet multiple deadlines. What did you do about it? 
A. Whenever my schedule is packed and my hand are tied up or i am in a inescapable situation the first thing i try to make a road map including deadlines in it. that helps me to give the maximum required time to each subject in the sequence of most important to least (i measure this with other factors like what can be compromised or delayed with least cost) and according to that i work without breaks and with utmost productivity. Also i sometimes request the head to give some leniency by explaining my helpless situation. and the one who allows it is the task i do at last. 



15. Give an example of how you work in a situation where you must prioritize and multitask without supervision. 
A. Some times there are many assignments that needs to be submitted on the same day and the viva is also scheduled on the same day. in such situation during college i have prioritize my work by starting with the most difficult subject for me that requires more attention and time. by doing that since the viva is also schedule i multitasked by learning about the subject while completing the assignment. i also manage my snacking time while tasking these two. and the subject that needs second most attention is placed second on my TO-DO list. this is how i make plans for myself in the situations where priorities needs to be listed out and multitask is required.    




16. Tell me about a day when everything went wrong. How did you handle it?
A. Perfection is a myth.Things do get wrong sometimes. there was a day when i was not doing well as i was suffering due to my health and the next day we had an end term exam it was very difficult for me to revise all the things i learn at that time and at the same time i do not wanted to compromise with my grade and make my marks affected by it. therefore to manage with that situation i somehow started revising only the key-words from each topic that was written by me in my notes. I already had idea about the theory since i was attentive in the class and so even when i thought my exam would not be as good as i wanted it to be it definitely was. and i passed with decent score even then. 